---
title: "About"
last_modified_at: 2025-12-17T09:20:02-05:00
header:
    teaser: /assets/images/cfp_500x300.png
---

This workshop aims to create a space for critical reflection, collaboration, and imagination around the responsible design of technology, bringing together diverse voices and visions to explore how we can leverage new approaches, technologies, and mechanisms to better understand the problem, challenge harmful norms, support affected communities, and build safer and more inclusive digital futures. 

By foregrounding gendered experiences and interdisciplinary perspectives, we aim to generate new points of view, representations, and imaginations by rethinking what responsibility means in the context of gender-based online harms, decoding the complexities and tensions between different understandings of online harm and responses, to
better understand implications for responsible design and practice. We also aim for the workshop to build a community and inspire future events, such as panels and workshops at other SIGCHI venues, research collaborations, and grant applications. This workshop will explore the following questions:

 1. What are the sociotechnical imaginaries of safe online spaces free of gender-based violence?
 2. What do we mean by responsibility? Who is responsible for what, and to whom?
 3. What taken-for-granted norms contribute to online harms? How can we change design norms to create responsibility?
 4. How to deal with tensions between distributing individual and shared responsibilities in managing online harms?
 5. What does being responsible look like in design and its processes, and organizational arrangements? What are symbols, narratives, and representations of ‘being responsible’?
 6. How to put responsibility in design? Which methodology works (and in what contexts)?
 7. What does responsible design for tackling gender-based online harm require in practice?

For more information on topics of interest and how to register your interest in participating, please visit:  [https://ou-cpwo.github.io/chi-sird-2026/cfp/](https://ou-cpwo.github.io/chi-sird-2026/cfp/)
